VOCABULARY: Here are the answers to the Vocabulary part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 21. c. “hilo” ang kasingkahulugan ng “liyo” 22. b. “pamalo” ang kasingkahulugan ng “pamipi” 23. a. “mahanap” ang kasingkahulugan ng “maapuhap” 24. e. “panunukso” ang kasingkahulugan ng “panunudyo” 25. c. “kontrahin” ang kasalungat ng “katigan” 26. d. “living luxuriously” is what the idiom “living like a maggot” means 27. a. “exaggerating” is what the idiom “inflating the cow” means 28. b. “will have both positive and negative effects” is what the idiom “cut both ways” means 29. e. “get revenge” is what the idiom “even the score” means 30. c. “examine something thoroughly” is what the idiom “do something with a fine-toothed comb” means 31. d. unpalatable is an antonym of luscious 32. b. demand is a synonym of exigency 33. a. tidy is an antonym of disheveled 34. c. pay out is a synonym of disburse 35. d. dull is an antonym of keen 36. c. wasteful is a synonym of profligate 37. e. soft is an antonym of vociferous 38. b. middle-class is the meaning of bourgeois 39. a. abundant is a synonym of copious 40. c. unplanned is a synonym of extemporaneous (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); GRAMMAR and CORRECT USAGE: Here are the answers to the Grammar and Correct Usage part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 41. e. such as The sentence is indicating that “professionals” is a category of people, and two specific examples of professions within that category are “lawyers” and “teachers”. The phrase “such as” is commonly used to introduce examples, and in this sentence, it is appropriate to use “such as” to indicate that lawyers and teachers are just two examples of the many professions that fall under the category of “professionals”. 42. d. who In the sentence, “who” is being used to refer to the person who saw the speaker in person. This is because the sentence is describing a specific person with a particular role (a doctor), and “who” is used to introduce essential information about that person. 43. c. ought In this sentence, “ought” is used as a modal auxiliary verb to express obligation or duty. It suggests that there is a moral or social expectation that something should be done about the suspicious transactions. 44. b. off The phrasal verb “live off” means to depend on or survive on something, usually with financial connotations. In this sentence, the subject Marie is depending on juice as her primary source of sustenance for the purpose of losing weight. 45. b. appropriate The adjective “appropriate” means suitable or fitting for a particular situation, and it is often used to describe behavior that is acceptable or proper in a given context. The rules should encourage behavior that is considered suitable or fitting in the workplace. 46. e. pride – stalked A “pride” is the term used to describe a group of lions, and “to stalk” means to hunt stealthily or pursue quietly. Therefore, “pride – stalked” is the most appropriate choice to describe how the lions hunted the herd of deer in the sentence. 47. a. price – prize The noun “price” refers to the cost of something, while “prize” refers to something that is awarded to a winner. In this sentence, “price” and “prize” are used to describe what made the winner jump for joy. It is possible that the winner won a valuable or rare prize that they had been hoping to acquire. 48. c. advised – advice The verb “advise” means to give counsel or guidance, while the noun “advice” refers to the recommendations given. In this sentence, the IATF (Inter-Agency Task Force) is advising the local government units to seek the advice of adept medical specialists to address the worsening pandemic. 49. d. worth – worthy “Worth” refers to the value or importance of something or someone, while “worthy” means deserving respect, attention, or admiration. The sentence is saying that it is not a good thing to try to prove your own value or importance by making other people feel like they are not deserving of respect or attention. 50. b. has started – seem The correct answer is “has started – seem” because the sentence is referring to a present situation that began in the past and is still ongoing. “Has started” is in the present perfect tense, which is used to describe an action or event that began in the past and continues up to the present. Furthermore, the verb “seem” is in the present tense, which matches the tense of “has started.” Therefore, the correct answer is “has started – seem” to accurately convey that the pandemic’s impact is an ongoing situation and that health experts have found some reason to be optimistic despite the challenges. 51. a. You’ll need to turn left on Aguinaldo Street; it’s the third house on the right. This sentence is correctly punctuated and effectively communicates the necessary information in a clear and concise manner. 52. e. Since we have a game today, we have to leave campus early. This sentence effectively communicates the necessary information in a clear and concise manner, with proper punctuation to separate the dependent clause at the beginning of the sentence from the independent clause that follows. 53. c. We had a campout and ate lots of foods, burgers, fries, pizza, chicken, and spaghetti. This sentence uses proper punctuation to separate the list of foods with commas and a conjunction, to separate the list from the main clause. 54. d. The park had many attractions; it had a rollercoaster, a Ferris wheel, a merry-go-round, and a wild river ride. This sentence uses a semicolon to separate the introductory clause from the main clause and commas to separate the items in the list of attractions, making it a clear and concise sentence. 55. a. Miss Dela Vega had gone to the United Kingdom to try to find a high-paying job. This sentence uses the past perfect tense “had gone” to indicate that the action of going to the United Kingdom occurred before the time of the main clause, which is in the past tense (“to try to find”). The phrase “to try to find” is also correctly used to indicate the purpose of the action. Option b is also acceptable, using the simple past tense “went” and the phrase “to try and find” to indicate the purpose of the action. However, “try to find” is generally considered more correct than “try and find” in formal writing. 56. b. communications tools made to The correct phrase should be “communication tools designed for.” “Made to” implies that the communications tools were created with the specific purpose of satisfying the demands of people who require more flexible communication services, which may not necessarily be the case. On the other hand, “designed for” implies that the communication tools were created with the intention of meeting the needs of individuals who require flexible communication services. This phrase accurately reflects the purpose of Facebook Messenger as a communication tool. 57. a. Here comes the handsome candidates It should be “Here come the handsome candidates” . The correct verb form to use with “candidates” (plural) is “come,” not “comes.” “Come” is the third-person plural form of the verb “to come,” which matches the subject-verb agreement in this sentence. 58. a. With little patience It should be “With a little patience” , which implies that the speaker believes that a small amount of patience is necessary to overcome difficult circumstances. Without the article “a,” the phrase “With little patience” may be interpreted as the speaker lacking patience, which is not the intended meaning of the sentence. 59. c. to your crews’ welfare It should be “to your crew’s welfare” . The use of the possessive “your” before “crew” suggests that the manager is referring to a specific group of employees who work under their supervision. 60. e. No error PARAGRAPH ORGANIZATION: Here are the answers to the Paragraph Organization part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 61. d. 34512 3. The egg-salmon combo is one of the latest weight-loss fads. 4. People are going nuts over this wonderful addition to an everyday weight loss diet. 5. Some people insist that they’ve seen no difference after trying this tasty combination. 1. Others recommend it as an excellent way to lose extra weight. 2. While nutritionists have yet to prove whole eggs and salmon support weight loss, there’s data they may play a role. 62. a. 25431 2. Some stuff had to be sent to Haidee’s parents. 5. However, she hasn’t prepared them yet. 4. Therefore, she had to pack them all first and place them inside a box. 3. After that, she spent almost an hour at the Post Office. 1. Haidee reached the office at 10 am after sending the package. 63. c. 34125 3. In Willamette National Forest, there is a big lake. 4. A heavy rain made the lake overflow forcefully through the waterway. 1. Its current was very powerful and could take away big tree trunks 2. Some children were playing on the bank of the waterway. 5. A man noticed the children and rushed to save them. 64. e. 51324 5. Leah’s business is not about her competition and how to beat them. 1. It is also not about the prices that she charges for her goods. 3. She made sure that it’s not just about the products and services that she offers. 2. Leah’s business is all about her customers’ satisfaction. 4. After all, her customers are the ones that will decide if her business goes boom or bust. 65. b. 31245 3. Tagged as a principal suspect in the Perkins murder case was a certain Andrew Simmons. 1. The suspect was a construction worker of a certain Ms. Tannehill, owner of an unfinished commercial unit. 2. Simmons immediately fled after the incident and managed to hide from the police up to this date. 4. Before the discovery of the victim’s body, Harold Perkins was reported missing by his wife. 5. One week later, the NYPD received an anonymous call about a lifeless body found inside a black body bag. 66. c. 25314 2. On weekends, I do the laundry in the morning. 5. Then I work out for at least an hour. 3. After that, I go and read some books. 1. I used to play video games on my computer. 4. It was a high-end desktop but now it doesn’t work. 67. c. 42135 4. In our country, one of the most urgent problems facing the government today relates to agriculture. 2. The first fact to consider is that over 60% of the population lives in rural communities. 1. In these rural areas, 80% of the available agricultural land suffers from dryness and lack of irrigation. 3. As a result, the crops are usually marginal with hardly enough production to feed the farmers’ families. 5. And without irrigation, agricultural production is wholly dependent on uncertain rainfalls. 68. a. 41325 4. The rapid growth of the earth’s human population is the most important problem that the world needs to address. 1. Thousands of new people are born on our planet every day. 3. The number of inhabitants in the world has already reached six billion. 2. If the present growth rate remains unchecked, the world may soon face widespread starvation. 5. Poverty, serious health problems, and even an increase in crimes could follow. 69. b. 54231 5. Much research has been done into the power of positivity. 4. Researchers have found that people tend to feel happier when they take the time to write down things for which they feel grateful. 2. It has also been found that going out of one’s way to thank others, either personally, written letters, or instant messaging, also creates a deep-rooted boost in happiness. 3. So, next time our birthday comes around, let’s not look at penning those thank-you notes as a waste of time. 1. Let us view it instead as a special way to reconnect with our sense of appreciation for our countless blessings in life. 70. d. 32154 3. In my hometown, the best sandwich comes from Saul’s Deli. 2. When you walk into Saul’s, you’ll see a big deli case in front of you, filled with every kind of filling, side dish, and treat you could hope for. 1. I always get a whitefish sandwich on rye, which means that I get to watch the cook slice the thick, brown, loaf of bread, heap whitefish onto it, and slather the thing with brown mustard. 5. Every sandwich comes with an amazing dill pickle that pops when you bite into it. 4. With all this to offer, Saul’s can’t be beaten for a good sandwich. Sponsored Links (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); READING COMPREHENSION: Here are the answers to the Reading Comprehension part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 71. a. He has grown a lot in the four years he was asleep. Explanation: Based on the fact that Jake’s pajamas do not fit, the most likely conclusion is that he has grown a lot in the time he was asleep. 72. d. Jake dreams about flying over the neighborhood. Explanation: “Jake had a feeling he was soaring above his neighborhood, looking down at the houses and streets below him.” So, the correct chronological order of events is: d. Jake dreams about flying over the neighborhood. a. Jake dreams about sleeping for four years. e. Jake dreams about seeing his adult sister. c. Jake dreams about playing baseball for the Dodgers. b. Jake dreams about having lunch with Tom Cruise. 73. e. He does not want to sleep his life away. Explanation: Jake leapt out of bed at the end of the story because he did not want to sleep his life away. In his dream, he had slept for four years and missed out on a lot, and he did not want to make the same mistake in real life. This is evident from the following line in the story: “He jumped out of bed, determined not to sleep his life away.” 74. c. Teenagers should not let opportunities pass them by. Explanation: The author emphasizes the importance of making the most of the time that teenagers have, and not wasting it by sleeping through it. The main message of the story is that life is short and teenagers should not miss out on the opportunities that are available to them. 75. b. Life is Full of Important Things to Do Explanation: Option b, “Life is Full of Important Things to Do” could be a possible title for the story, as the message of the story is about not wasting time and taking advantage of opportunities. The story emphasizes that there are important things to do in life, and sleeping excessively can cause one to miss out on those opportunities. 76. a. pathos Explanation: The author explains that pathos: “is a speaker’s way of connecting with an audience’s emotions.” The author then gives two examples: a candidate who uses fear to gain votes and a charity that makes you feel pity to get money. 77. e. An audience is more likely to trust a speaker who uses evidence to support his argument. Explanation: The more facts a speaker includes in his argument, the more likely an audience is to think that he is educated and trustworthy. 78. c. ethos Explanation: According to the author, the speaker’s way of convincing the audience that he/she is a credible source is through the use of ethos. Ethos refers to a speaker’s credibility and trustworthiness, and a speaker can establish ethos by emphasizing their experience and expertise in a particular field, or by convincing the audience that they have their best interests at heart. 79. e. pathos, ethos, and logos altogether Explanation: Jared uses logos by providing a statistic about the current state of unemployment in the city and his own track record of job creation. He also uses ethos by emphasizing his experience as a CEO and suggesting that he can use that experience to create jobs for the city. Finally, he uses pathos by implying that if the current mayor remains in office, more people will lose their jobs, which could evoke fear and concern in the audience. 80. d. logos only Explanation: Logos is the use of logical arguments, facts, and evidence to persuade an audience. Ethos, on the other hand, refers to the credibility and trustworthiness of the speaker, while pathos refers to the use of emotions to persuade an audience. 81. c. Bungee jumping cords Explanation: Although Kevlar is known for its strength and durability, it is not typically used in bungee jumping cords. Bungee jumping cords are typically made of elastic materials, such as latex rubber, due to their ability to stretch and recoil. Kevlar is not an elastic material and is not well-suited for this type of use. While Kevlar has been used in a variety of products such as body armor, sporting equipment, and brake pads, there is no evidence to suggest that it has been used in bungee jumping cords. 82. a. 1975 Explanation: It is stated in the second paragraph that the first bulletproof vest was invented by Richard Armellino in 1975. 83. e. All of the above Explanation: Kevlar is known for all of the above characteristics: strength, durability, heat resistance, and stopping bullets. 84. d. Stephanie Kwolek Explanation: As stated in the 3rd paragraph, during one of the steps in the process, Kwolek created a milky white solution by mixing two chemicals that were often used in the process. This solution was usually thrown away, but Kwolek convinced one of the technicians to help her test it. They were amazed to discover that the fabric that Kwolek had created was not only more durable than nylon, but was more durable than steel. Kwolek had invented Kevlar. 85. b. A shortage in the gasoline supply Explanation: Stephanie Kwolek was working for DuPont and searching for a lightweight yet strong fiber that could be used in tires. During the process, she discovered Kevlar which was later used to make bulletproof vests. 86. b. rifle rounds Explanation: The vest made of 15 layers of Kevlar with no steel plates could stop handgun rounds and revolver rounds but may not be able to stop rifle rounds. 87. c. it was resistant to fire Explanation: Asbestos was used in buildings because it is resistant to fire and heat. It was thought to be an ideal material for insulation and fireproofing due to its ability to resist high temperatures without burning or melting. 88. a. Over half Explanation: According to the article, over half of American police officers are estimated to wear bulletproof vests daily. So the answer is (a) Over half. 89. e. Five times as strong Explanation: Kevlar is a synthetic polymer that is about five times stronger than an equal weight of steel. This information is mentioned in the second paragraph of the article: “Kevlar is a synthetic polymer that is five times stronger than an equal weight of steel.” 90. e. tires Explanation: Kwolek was trying to improve the strength of tires when she invented Kevlar. ANALOGY: Here are the answers to the Analogy part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 91. b. prisoner The analogy draws a relationship between two pairs of words: “principal” and “teacher,” and “marshal” and “prisoner.” In the first pair, the principal is someone who is in charge of a school, while a teacher is someone who works under the principal’s supervision. In the second pair, a marshal is someone who is in charge of enforcing the law and maintaining order, while a prisoner is someone who is under the marshal’s authority and control. 92. d. proletarian The words in this analogy are related by being antonyms or opposites of each other. “Summit” is the top of a mountain, while “bottom” is the opposite or lowest point. Similarly, “bourgeois” refers to the middle or upper class, while “proletarian” refers to the working class. 93. a. pragmatic The connection between the words in this analogy is that they are antonyms, with “murky” being the opposite of “clear” and “quixotic” being the opposite of “pragmatic.” 94. e. tissue The relationship between the words in this analogy is that a molecule is made up of atoms, and a tissue is made up of cells. A molecule is the smallest unit of a compound that retains its chemical properties, while an atom is the smallest unit of matter that retains its chemical properties. Similarly, a tissue is a group of cells that work together to perform a specific function, while a cell is the basic unit of life that performs all the functions necessary for living organisms. 95. b. cube This analogy compares the relationship between two-dimensional and three-dimensional shapes. A circle is a two-dimensional shape, and a sphere is a three-dimensional shape that has the same curvature all around its surface. Similarly, a square is a two-dimensional shape, and a cube is a three-dimensional shape that has the same length, width, and height. 96. c. Frond : Palm The analogy here is that the first term in each pair is a part or characteristic feature of the second term. A quill is a characteristic feature of a porcupine, as porcupines have quills on their bodies for protection. Similarly, a frond is a characteristic feature of a palm, as palms have large, divided leaves known as fronds. 97. d. Self-centered : Egocentric The relationship between “uneasy” and “anxious” is that of synonyms – they both convey a sense of worry, apprehension or discomfort. Similarly, the relationship between “self-centered” and “egocentric” is also that of synonyms. Both words describe a person who is overly focused on themselves and their own interests, often at the expense of others. 98. d. Lavish : Simple The relationship between “Morose” and “Jubilant” is that they are antonyms , meaning they are words with opposite meanings. “Morose” means gloomy or sullen, while “Jubilant” means joyful or exuberant. Likewise, “Lavish” and “Simple” are antonyms . “Lavish” means extravagant or luxurious, while “Simple” means plain or basic. 99. e. Quiet : Taciturn The relationship between “Dull” and “Jejune” is that they are synonyms , meaning they have similar meanings. “Dull” means lacking interest or excitement, while “Jejune” means lacking interest or significance, simplistic. Likewise, “Quiet” and “Taciturn” are synonyms . “Quiet” means making little or no noise, while “Taciturn” means reserved or uncommunicative. 100. b. Harrow : Gardener The first pair of words is “Plough” and “Farmer.” A plough is a farming tool used for tilling the soil, and a farmer is a person who cultivates crops or raises livestock. The second pair of words is “Harrow” and “Gardener.” A harrow is a gardening tool used for cultivating the soil and removing weeds, and a gardener is a person who tends to and cultivates a garden. In other words, just as a farmer uses a plough for farming, a gardener uses a harrow for gardening. 101. a. 0.6 To understand the relationship between 20/100 and 20%, we need to know that percent means “per hundred”. Therefore, 20% can be written as 20/100 or 0.2. Using the same logic, to find the equivalent of 9/15 as a decimal, we need to find what fraction of 100 it represents. We can do this by dividing both the numerator and denominator of 9/15 by 3: 9/15 = (9 ÷ 3) / (15 ÷ 3) = 3/5 Now we can express 3/5 as a decimal by dividing the numerator by the denominator: 3 ÷ 5 = 0.6 102. c. 7 9 /10 The pattern to this number series is +1, +3/4, +1/2, +1/4, +0 . Starting from the whole number “1”, every subsequent number is then added a number that is deducted by 1/4. 103. a. 36 The number pairings are from the product of the numbers multiplied by itself starting from the number 2 and omitting the number “4” . 2×2 = 4 , 3×3 = 9 , 5×5 = 25 , 6×6 = 36 104. b. XVII The pattern is a sequence where each term increases by 3. Starting with V (5), we add 3 to get VIII (8), then 3 more to get XI (11), and so on. We add 3 to the previous term to get the next term in the sequence. 105. e. W26 In the sequence, the letters follow the order of the English alphabet, and the numbers follow a decreasing pattern, decreasing by 3 at each step. So, starting with U32, we move to the next letter V and subtract 3 from the number to get V29. Continuing this pattern, we can find the missing number: U32 V29 W26 X23 (subtracting 3 from the previous number) Y20 (subtracting 3 from the previous number) Therefore, the number that should fill the blank is W26, which is the next number in the pattern, following the letter W and decreasing by 3 from the previous number X23. 106. d. YFZ The pattern in this series involves moving backward by one letter in the alphabet for the 1 st letter , by two letters for the 2 nd letter , and by three letters for the 3 rd letter . So, starting with CNL, the next letter in the sequence would be a letter that is one letter backward from Z for the first letter, two letters backward from H for the second letter, and three letters backward from C for the third letter. Using this pattern, we can see that the next letter after ZHC would be YFZ, where the first letter is Y (one letter backward from Z) , the second letter is F (two letters backward from H) , and the third letter is Z (three letters backward from C) . Therefore, the correct answer is option (d) YFZ . 107. a. 729 1331 is divisible by 11 and 729 is divisible by 9. 108. b. two : binary In the given analogy, the first word “ten” is related to “decimal” as they are equivalent in numerical value, where “ten” is a base-10 number system and “decimal” refers to the base-10 numbering system that uses ten digits from 0 to 9. Similarly, “two” is related to “binary” as “two” is a base-2 number system and “binary” refers to the base-2 numbering system that uses two digits, 0 and 1. Option A, “five : quince,” is not correct as “quince” refers to a fruit, and there is no direct numerical relation between “five” and “quince.” Option C, “four : quartet,” is also incorrect as “quartet” refers to a group of four people or things and is not related to numerical values. Option D, “eight : octagon,” is not correct as “octagon” refers to a shape with eight sides, which is not directly related to numerical values. Option E, “seven : septet,” is not correct as “septet” refers to a group of seven people or things and is not related to numerical values. 109. e. VE7 The sequence follows two patterns: one for the first letters , and one for the second and third characters . For the first letters, the sequence goes in reverse alphabetical order, starting with Z, then Y, X, W, and V. For the second and third characters, the sequence follows a pattern of alternating letters and numbers in alphabetical order. The first letter is A, and then the next letter is C, and so on. The first number is 5, and then the next number is 4, and so on. The missing second and third characters in the sequence are U and E, and the only answer choice that has U and E in alphabetical order with a number that follows the pattern of -1, +2, -3, +4 is e. VE7. 110. c. 120 From the last number in the sequence (6), multiply it by 5, then the following number by -1, descending all the way to 1: 6 x 5 = 30 30 x 4 = 120 120 x 3 = 360 360 x 2 = 720 720 x 1 = 720 Sponsored Links (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); LOGICAL REASONING: Here are the answers to the Logical Reasoning part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 111. d. Neither I nor II follows Since one premise is negative, the conclusion must be negative. So, neither conclusion follows. 112. a. Only conclusion I is valid The statement tells that the Jam is the only daughter of their parents. This means that she has obviously no sisters. So the direct conclusion is I. On the other hand, we do not have any idea about the brothers of Jam. Hence II conclusion may or may not be true. 113. b. Frank people give straight facts Based on the given statement, assumption b. “Frank people give straight facts” can be inferred as correct. This is because the statement mentions that “everything he says is accurate,” implying that Shannon speaks the truth and does not lie or sugarcoat his words. 114. a. Only conclusion I is valid Encroachment should not be there in anyone’s private matters does imply the same meaning as told in the given statement but we clearly do not know about the presence of professional life under personal matters. 115. c. Having a mobile phone is not a needless expenditure This is because the statement says that having a mobile phone is not a luxury, and all luxuries are needless expenditures. Therefore, having a mobile phone cannot be a needless expenditure. 116. a. Only Assumption I is implicit Assumption I directly follows from the statement while Assumption II is a suggestion and does not tell about a government policy or its position of funds. 117. d. Neither I nor II is valid Conclusion I is not valid because of the fact that other camera companies may have such kinds of manufacturing units. Conclusion II also is not valid because the given statement talks about the camera, not the photographer. 118. b. Only conclusion II is valid According to the given statement, to get quality education, one needs to spend much and The Philippines is spending much for quality education. Therefore, it is for sure that the quality of education is going to improve in the near future. Hence conclusion II is valid. Conclusion I, however; is irrelevant related to the statement. 119. b. Only conclusion II is valid The statement clearly talks about the Jade plant not any other so conclusion I is not valid. It’s the nature of the Jade plant to survive on less water. 120. e. Both I and II are implicit The advertisement tells the different ways in which the liquor can be drank. This means that different people prefer to have it in a different way and that some people would prefer it only because it can be taken in a particular manner. 121. c. Many Filipino drivers lack road discipline Conclusion c. “Many Filipino drivers lack road discipline” is a concrete answer based on the given statement. The statement implies that many Filipino drivers are deliberately violating traffic rules, which suggests that they lack discipline and are not following road safety guidelines. Therefore, we can infer that conclusion c. is correct. 122. d. Hollywood actors and actresses become famous because they are liked by the audience The statement implies that an actor’s or actress’s fame is dependent on the audience’s support and interest in their movies, indicating that they become famous because they are liked by the audience. Conclusion a. “The audience cannot stop actors to become famous” is incorrect because the statement implies the opposite. The statement suggests that even if actors are talented and packaged to perfection, they still need audience support and viewership to become famous. Conclusion b. “The audience empathizes with humble actors” is not supported by the given statement and is thus incorrect. Conclusion c. “Mediocre actors should be packaged together with talented actors to become famous” is not directly supported by the given statement. The statement only discusses the importance of audience support and interest in an actor’s or actress’s movies. Conclusion e. “Actors and actresses need to please everyone to like them” is not supported by the given statement and is thus incorrect. The statement only suggests that actors and actresses need the support of the audience to become famous, not necessarily that they need to please everyone. 123. b. Only assumption II follows The fact given in I is quite contrary to the given statement. So, I does not follow. II mentions the direct implications of the state discussed in the statement. 124. e. Many families do not have the capability to pay the high tuition fees of private schools The statement indicates that there has been a 35% increase in enrollment in public schools, while enrollment in private schools has decreased by 15%. This implies that more families are opting for public schools over private schools, likely due to financial reasons, suggesting that many families don’t have the capability to pay the high tuition fees of private schools. Conclusion a. “Dropouts have grown substantially” is not supported by the given statement and is thus incorrect. Conclusion b. “DepEd does not have the financial resources to subsidize all private school enrollees” is not directly supported by the given statement. The statement only provides information on the increase in enrollment in public schools and decrease in enrollment in private schools, but it does not indicate anything about the financial resources of DepEd. Conclusion c. “There is an increasing demand for public teachers in private schools” is not supported by the given statement and is thus incorrect. Conclusion d. “Problems continue to beset the country’s tertiary education system” is not supported by the given statement and is thus incorrect. The statement only provides information on the change in enrollment rates in public and private schools and does not directly relate to the tertiary education system. 125. b. Only assumption II is implicit Assumption I is not implicit, even if based on your real-life experiences, you may believe that delay is inevitable in most jobs. As per the statement, increasing the number of people will make up for the delay by increasing the output. So II is implicit. 126. d. Vanna is the last in line The order of the girls from last to first is: Vanna, Jean, Claire, Lisa. Option a. “Jean is the first girl in line” is not true based on the given information. Option b. “Lisa is the last girl in line” is not true based on the given information. Option c. “Claire is the second girl in line” is not true based on the given information. Option d. “Vanna is the last girl in line” is true based on the given information. Option e. “All of them are not actual girls” is not true and is not related to the given information. 127. c. Lailani’s commute is less comfortable since the bus schedule changed The passage states that Lailani’s commute didn’t bother her because she was always able to sit down and comfortably read or do paperwork. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that Lailani’s commute has become less comfortable since the bus schedule changed because it is very crowded and she can no longer find a seat. 128. e. Sarah and Mattheo decided to change their vacation plans because of the typhoon The true statement is e. Sarah and Mattheo decided to change their vacation plans because of the typhoon. The other options cannot be concluded from the given information. 129. c. painter, electrician, midwife, carpenter, teacher Here is the reasoning: The painter and teacher occupy the first and last seats but not respectively, which means the order is either teacher, X, X, X, painter or painter, X, X, X, teacher . The carpenter is sitting to the left of the midwife, so the order is either X, X, midwife, carpenter, X or X, X, carpenter, midwife, X . The electrician is sitting in the middle of the painter and midwife, so the order is painter, electrician, midwife or midwife, electrician, painter. Putting it all together, we get the order painter, electrician, midwife, carpenter, teacher. 130. d. Pamela is the youngest If Karen is older than Pamela and Jake is older than Karen, then Pamela has to be the youngest of the three. NUMERICAL OPERATIONS: Here are the answers to the Numerical Operations part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 131. a. P743.125 The customer bought 3.5 kilos of red tomatoes and 6.75 kilos of green tomatoes from Bella’s vegetable stand, and both types of tomatoes are sold for P72.50 per kilo. To find out how much money Bella earned from that sale, we can multiply the total weight of the tomatoes by the price per kilo: Total weight of tomatoes = 3.5 + 6.75 = 10.25 kilos Price per kilo = P72.50 Total amount earned = 10.25 kilos x P72.50/kilo = P743.125 132. c. 1 5/8 cups To find out how many cups of strawberries Rowena used for the pancakes, we need to subtract the amount of strawberries used for the smoothie from the total amount of strawberries, and then multiply the result by 1/2 (since she used half of the remaining strawberries for the pancakes). The total amount of strawberries Rowena has is 3 1/2 cups. To find out how many cups of strawberries were used for the smoothie, we need to use the equation: 1/4 x 3 1/2 = 7/8 So Rowena used 7/8 cup of strawberries for the smoothie. To find out how many cups of strawberries are left, we need to subtract the amount used for the smoothie from the total amount: 3 1/2 – 7/8 = 2 5/8 So Rowena has 2 5/8 cups of strawberries left. Finally, to find out how many cups of strawberries Rowena used for the pancakes, we need to multiply the amount of strawberries left by 1/2: 2 5/8 x 1/2 = 1 5/8 Therefore, Rowena used 1 5/8 cups of strawberries for the pancakes. 133. b. P0.60 per foot To find the cost per foot of the ribbon, we need to divide the total cost of the ribbon by the total length of the ribbon used. The total length of ribbon used is: 5.75 feet + 11.75 feet = 17.5 feet Let’s convert the total cost to the same unit as the length of the ribbon, which is feet. To do this, we need to divide the total cost by the cost per foot: P10.50 ÷ P/foot = P/foot We don’t know the cost per foot yet, so we can’t divide yet. Let’s rearrange the equation to solve for the cost per foot: P/foot = P10.50 ÷ 17.5 feet P/foot = P0.60/foot Therefore, the cost per foot of the ribbon is P0.60 per foot , which is option (b). 134. d. 58 students To solve this problem, we need to find the total number of students that rode the buses, and then divide that number by the number of buses to find the number of students on each bus. Total number of students = Number of buses × Capacity of each bus + Number of students in the van Number of buses = 6 Capacity of each bus = number of students per bus Number of students in the van = 8 Total number of students = 6(number of students per bus) + 8 356 = 6 (number of students per bus) + 8 Subtracting 8 from both sides, we get: 348 = 6 (number of students per bus) Dividing both sides by 6, we get: number of students per bus = 58 135. e. 72 cards Let’s represent the number of cards Michael started with as “x”. We know that he bought 4 new cards, so the total number of cards he had is “x + 4”. The next day, his dog ate half of his cards, leaving him with only 38 cards: 38 = (x + 4) ÷ 2 Multiplying both sides by 2, we get: 76 = x + 4 Subtracting 4 from both sides, we get: x = 72 Therefore, Michael started with 72 Yugi-Oh! cards , which is option (e). 136. c. 6 hours Let’s represent the number of hours Kenneth rented the bike as “h”. We know that the rental fee is P16.00 plus P9.00 per hour, so the total cost is: Total cost = P16.00 + P9.00 × h We also know that Kenneth paid P70.00 to rent the bike, so we can set up the equation: P16.00 + P9.00 × h = P70.00 Subtracting P16.00 from both sides, we get: P9.00 × h = P54.00 Dividing both sides by P9.00, we get: h = 6 Therefore, Kenneth rented the bike for 6 hours , which is option (c). 137. d. 186 students To find out how many students are enrolled in other courses, we need to first calculate the number of students enrolled in engineering and political science, and then subtract this from the total number of students. Number of students enrolled in engineering = 23% of 300 = 0.23 x 300 = 69 Number of students enrolled in political science = 15% of 300 = 0.15 x 300 = 45 Therefore, the number of students enrolled in other courses = Total number of students – Number of students enrolled in engineering – Number of students enrolled in political science = 300 – 69 – 45 = 186 Therefore, the answer is d. 186 students. 138. b. 130 To find out how many of the crimes do not belong in the drug-related classification, we need to first calculate the number of crimes that are drug-related, and then subtract this from the total number of crimes. Number of drug-related crimes = 35% of 200 = 0.35 x 200 = 70 Therefore, the number of crimes that do not belong in the drug-related classification = Total number of crimes – Number of drug-related crimes = 200 – 70 = 130 Therefore, the answer is b. 130 crimes . 139. a. 22,500 tablets If 20% of the tablets were found defective, then 80% of the tablets were not defective. Let’s use x to represent the initial number of tablets. The number of tablets that were not defective can be calculated as 80% of the initial number of tablets: 0.8x = 18,000 Dividing both sides by 0.8, we get: x = 18,000 / 0.8 = 22,500 Therefore, the initial number of tablets was 22,500 . 140. e. 21 kilometers We can use proportionality to solve this problem. Let’s represent the distance the jeep can cover with 1 liter of diesel as “d” . We know that the jeep covered a distance of 48.3 km with 2.3 liters of diesel. Therefore, we can set up the following proportion: 48.3 km / 2.3 L = d km / 1 L To solve for d, we can cross-multiply and simplify: 2.3d = 48.3 x 1 2.3d = 48.3 d = 48.3 / 2.3 d ≈ 21 Therefore, the jeep can cover approximately 21 kilometers with 1 liter of diesel. Hence, the answer is e. 21 kilometers . 141. b. 5.02 meters To find the length of each part that Melody has to cut, we can divide the total length of the ribbon by the number of parts she needs to cut it into: 35.14 meters / 7 parts = 5.02 meters/part Therefore, the length of each part that Melody has to cut is approximately 5.02 meters . 142. c. -17 feet To find the position of the dolphin relative to the surface after diving down 8 more feet, we need to add the depth of the initial position (9 feet) to the distance it dove down (8 feet): 9 feet + 8 feet = 17 feet Therefore, the position of the dolphin relative to the surface is now 17 feet below the surface. However, the question is asking for the position relative to the surface, which means we need to indicate whether the dolphin is above or below the surface. Since the position is below the surface, we should indicate this with a negative sign. Therefore, the final answer is: -17 feet . 143. d. 3:30 pm If the class left school at 11:15 A.M. and it took them 30 minutes to drive to the museum, then they arrived at the museum at: 11:15 A.M. + 30 minutes = 11:45 A.M. If they stayed at the museum for 3 hours and 45 minutes, then the total time they spent at the museum is: 3 hours + 45 minutes = 3:45 To find out what time it was when they left the museum, we need to add the time they spent at the museum to the time they arrived at the museum: 11:45 A.M. + 3:45 = 3:30 P.M. Therefore, it was 3:30 P.M. when Kate’s class left the museum. 144. b. 2:00 pm We can add up the total time Joel spent playing the game: First level: 2 hours Second level: 45 minutes, or 0.75 hours Third level: 2 hours and 15 minutes, or 2.25 hours So the total time Joel spent playing the game is: 2 hours + 0.75 hours + 2.25 hours = 5 hours If he finished playing at 7:00 P.M., he must have started playing at: 7:00 P.M. – 5 hours = 2:00 P.M. 145. e. 11 years old Let’s use algebra to solve the problem. Let x be Rhealyn’s current age. Then Margareth’s current age is 3x. 11 years from now, Rhealyn’s age will be x + 11 and Margareth’s age will be 3x + 11. We are given that Margareth will be twice as old as Rhealyn in 11 years: 3x + 11 = 2(x + 11) Simplifying the equation, we get: 3x + 11 = 2x + 22 x = 11 Therefore, Rhealyn’s current age is 11 years old . 146. b. Five hundred eighty-seven and seven hundred sixty-five thousandths. 147. c. 179.180 148. c. 130 meters Let’s start by defining the variables. Let w be the width of the playground and l be the length. From the problem, we know that: l = 2w – 10 (the length is 10 meters less than twice the width) 2l + 2w = 400 (the perimeter is 400 meters) Substituting the first equation into the second equation, we get: 2(2w-10) + 2w = 400 Simplifying and solving for w, we get: 6w – 20 = 400 6w = 420 w = 70 Substituting w = 70 into the first equation, we get: l = 2(70) – 10 = 130 Therefore, the length of the playground is 130 meters. Answer: c. 130 meters . 149. e. 56 meters Since the vacant lot is rectangular in shape, we can find its dimensions using its area. Let the length of the lot be L and the width be W. Then, we have: L x W = 196 Also, since we need to enclose the entire lot with a fence, we need to find the perimeter of the lot. The perimeter can be calculated as: P = 2L + 2W Substituting the value of W from the first equation, we get: P = 2L + 2(196/L) To minimize the length of wooden fence required, we need to find the minimum value of P. Taking the derivative of P with respect to L and equating it to zero, we get: 2 – 392/L^2 = 0 Solving for L, we get: L = sqrt(392/2) = 14 Substituting the value of L in the first equation, we get: W = 196/14 = 14 Therefore, the length and width of the lot are both 14 meters. The perimeter of the lot is: P = 2L + 2W = 2(14) + 2(14) = 56 meters Thus, Alisa would need 56 meters of wooden fence to enclose her lot. The answer is option e. 150. d. 12.5 kilograms First, we need to arrange the weights in order: 2, 6, 8, 9, 13, 15, 16, 22, 41 The median is the middle value . Since there are 9 packages, the middle value is the average of the 5th and 6th terms: median = (13 + 15) / 2 = 14 kilograms If a 10th package that weighs 12 kilograms is added to the list, the new list of weights would be: 2, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 22, 41 The new median is the average of the 5th and 6th terms: new median = (12 + 13) / 2 = 12.5 kilograms Therefore, the answer is d. 12.5 kilograms. 151. a. toy cars The least selling is board games followed by educational toys, and then toy cars. 152. e. 3,855,283 units Dolls = 9,001,565 Educational Toys = 5,146,282 9,001,565 – 5,146,282 = 3,855,283 153. d. 1,042,307.08 units Action Figures sold 12,507,685 units in the course of 12 months based on the reports. 12,507,685 ÷ 12 months = 1,042,307.08 155. b. 7,837,327 units The third-best-selling toy in the list is action figures with sales of 12,507,685 units. The least-selling toy on the list is board games with sales of 4,670,358 units. To catch up with the third-best-selling toy (action figures), the least-selling toy (board games) would need to sell an additional: 12,507,685 – 4,670,358 = 7,837,327 units Adding this to the current sales of board games gives: 4,670,358 + 7,837,327 = 12,507,685 So the least-selling toy, board games, would need to sell 7,837,327 units to catch up with the third-best-selling toy, action figures. GENERAL INFORMATION: Here are the answers to the General Information part of the CSE Professional Reviewer: 156. e. a, b, and c 157. e. It goes only to the state’s debt 158. c. Article VII, Section 1 159. d. have been for fifteen years or more, a judge of a lower court 160. a. Right against unreasonable searches and seizures 161. d. Article III, Section 15 162. b. Agency personnel in government offices 163. c. freedom of speech 164. c. Constitution of Universality 165. e. democratic – republican 166. d. The House of Representatives 167. e. service guides 168. a. Commutation 169. d. 40 years old 170. b. Plebiscite